Verfassung des Staates Neu Kolumbien
(Constitution for the State of New Columbia)vom 6. Mai 1987PREAMBLE

This constitution, to be known as the Constitution for the State of New
Columbia, shall establish the means of governance of the State of New Columbia.

ARTICLE I. BILL OF RIGHTS

Sec. 101. Freedom of religion, of speech, and of the press. The State of New
Columbia shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or
prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of
the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the
government for a redress of grievances.

Sec. 102. Right to keep and bear arms. A well regulated militia being necessary
to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear arms,
shall not be infringed.

Sec. 103. Quartering of soldiers. No soldier shall, in time of peace be
quartered in any house, without the consent of the owner, nor in time of war,
but in a manner to be prescribed by law.

Sec. 104. Security from unwarrantable search and seizure. The right of the
people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects against
unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no warrants shall
issue, but upon probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation, and
particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to
be seized.

Sec. 105. Rights of accused in criminal proceedings. No person shall be held to
answer for a felony offense, unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand
jury; nor shall any person be subject for the same offense to be twice put in
jeopardy of life or limb; nor shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a
witness against himself or herself, nor be deprived of life, liberty, or
property, without due process of law; nor shall private property be taken for
public use without just compensation.

Sec. 106. Right to speedy trial, witnesses, etc. In all criminal prosecutions,
the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial
jury of the State, and to be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation;
to be confronted with the witnesses against him or her; to have compulsory
process for obtaining witnesses in his or her favor, and to have the assistance
of counsel for his or her defense.

Sec. 107. Trial by jury in civil cases. In suits at common law, where the value
in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be
preserved, and no fact tried by a jury, shall be otherwise reexamined in any
Court of the State of New Columbia, than according to the rules of the common
law.

Sec. 108. Bails, fines, punishments. Excessive bail shall not be required, nor
excessive fines imposed, nor cruel or unusual punishments inflicted.

Sec. 109. Reservation of rights of the people. The enumeration in this
constitution, of certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage
others retained by the people.

Sec. 110. Equal protection. The State of New Columbia shall not deny to any
person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the law.

ARTICLE II. LEGISLATIVE POWER; CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT PROCEDURE

Sec. 201. Legislative power. The legislative power of the State of New Columbia
shall extend to all rightful subjects of legislation within the State of New
Columbia consistent with the Constitution of the United States and the
provisions of this constitution subject to all the restrictions and limitations
imposed upon the states by the 10th section of the first article of the
Constitution of the United States.

Sec. 202. Constitution amending procedure. (a) The constitution may be amended
by an act passed by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members of the
House of Delegates and ratified by a majority of the registered qualified
electors of the State of New Columbia voting in the referendum held for such
ratification.

(b) An amendment to the constitution ratified by the registered electors shall
take effect on the date the Board of Elections and Ethics certifies that such
act was ratified by a majority of the registered qualified electors voting
thereon or upon the date prescribed by such amendment, whichever is later..

ARTICLE III THE LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

Sec. 301. Creation and membership. (a) The legislative power of the State of New
Columbia shall be vested in the legislature, which shall be called the House of
Delegates and which shall be elected by the registered qualified electors of the
State of New Columbia.

(b) (1) Except as provided in section 1101(c), the House of Delegates
established under subsection (a) of this section shall consist of 25 members
elected on a partisan basis. The President of the House of Delegates and 8
members shall be elected at large in the State of New Columbia, and 16 members
shall be elected from the districts established, from time to time, under the
State of New Columbia election laws. The term of office of the members of the
House of Delegates shall be 4 years, and shall begin at noon on January 2nd of
the year following their election.
(2) To fill a vacancy in the Office of President of the House of Delegates, the
Board of Elections and Ethics shall hold a special election in the State of New
Columbia on the 1st Tuesday occurring more than 114 days after the date on which
such vacancy occurs, unless the Board of Elections and Ethics determines that
such vacancy could be more practicably filled in a special election held on the
same day as the next general election to be held in the State of New Columbia
occurring within 60 days of the date on which a special election would otherwise
have been held under the provisions of this paragraph. The person elected
President of the House of Delegates to fill a vacancy in the Office of President
of the House of Delegates shall take office on the day in which the Board of
Elections and Ethics certifies his or her election, and shall serve as President
of the House of Delegates only for the remainder of the term during which such
vacancy occurred. When the Office of President of the House of Delegates becomes
vacant, the House of Delegates shall select 1 of the elected at-large members of
the House of Delegates to serve as President of the House of Delegates and 1 to
serve as President of the House of Delegates pro tempore until the election of a
new President of the House of Delegates.

(c) The House of Delegates may establish and select such other officers and
employees as it deems necessary and appropriate to carry out the functions of
the House of Delegates.

(d) (1) In the event of a vacancy in the House of Delegates of a member elected
from a district, the Board of Elections and Ethics shall hold a special election
in such district to fill such vacancy on the 1st Tuesday occurring more than 114
days after the date on which such vacancy occurs, unless the Board of Elections
and Ethics determines that such vacancy could be more practicably filled in a
special election held on the same day as the next general election to be held in
the State of New Columbia occurring within 60 days of the date on which a
special election would otherwise have been held under the provisions of this
subsection. The person elected as a member to fill a vacancy on the House of
Delegates shall take office on the day on which the Board of Elections and
Ethics certifies his or her election, and shall serve as a member of the House
of Delegates only for the remainder of the term during which such vacancy
occurred.
(2) In the event of a vacancy in the House of Delegates of a member elected at
large, other than a vacancy in the Office of President of the House of
Delegates, who is affiliated with a political party, the central committee of
such political party shall appoint a person to fill such vacancy, until the
Board of Elections and Ethics can hold a special election to fill such vacancy,
and such special election shall be held on the 1st Tuesday occurring more than
114 days after the date on which such vacancy occurs unless the Board of
Elections and Ethics determines that such vacancy could be more practicably
filled in a special election held on the same day as the next general election
to be held in the State of New Columbia occurring within 60 days of the date on
which a special election would otherwise be held under the provisions of this
subsection. The person appointed to fill such vacancy shall take office on the
date of his or her appointment and shall serve as a member of the House of
Delegates until the day on which the Board certifies the election of the member
elected to fill such vacancy in either a special election or a general election.
The person elected as a member to fill such a vacancy on the House of Delegates
shall take office on the day on which the Board of Elections and Ethics
certifies his or her election, and shall serve as a member of the House of
Delegates only for the remainder of the term during which such vacancy occurred.
With respect to a vacancy on the House of Delegates of a member elected at large
who is not affiliated with any political party, the House of Delegates shall
appoint a similarly non-affiliated person to fill such vacancy until such
vacancy can be filled in a special election in the manner prescribed in this
paragraph. Such person appointed by the House of Delegates shall take office and
serve as a member at the same time and for the same term as a member appointed
by a central committee of a political party.
(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, at no time shall there
be more than 7 members (including the President of the House of Delegates)
serving at large on the House of Delegates who are affiliated with the same
political party.

Sec. 302. Qualifications for holding office. No person shall hold the office of
member of the House of Delegates, including the Office of President of the House
of Delegates, unless he or she:
(1) Is a qualified elector;
(2) is domiciled in the State of New Columbia and if he or she is nominated for
election from a particular district, resides in the district from which he or
she is nominated;
(3) has resided and been domiciled in the State of New Columbia for 1 year
immediately preceding the day on which the general or special election for such
office is to be held; and
(4) holds no public office (other than his or her employment in and position as
a member of the House of Delegates), for which he or she is compensated in an
amount in excess of his or her actual expenses in connection therewith, except
that nothing in this clause shall prohibit any such person, while a member of
the House of Delegates, from serving as a delegate or alternate delegate to a
convention of a political party nominating candidates for President and Vice
President of the United States, or from holding an appointment in a reserve
component of an armed force of the United States other than a member serving on
active duty under a call for more than 30 days. A member of the House of
Delegates shall forfeit his or her office upon failure to maintain the
qualifications required by this section, and, in the case of the President of
the House of Delegates, section 303(c).

Sec. 303. Compensation. (a) Each member of the House of Delegates shall receive
compensation, payable in periodic installments, at the rate set up by the House
of Delegates and the House of Delegates may, by act, increase or decrease such
rate of compensation. Such change in compensation, upon enactment by the House
of Delegates in accordance with the provisions of this constitution, shall apply
with respect to the term of members of the House of Delegates beginning after
the date of enactment of such change.

(b) All members of the House of Delegates shall receive additional allowances
for actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of
office as may be approved by the House of Delegates.

(c) The President of the House of Delegates shall receive, in addition to the
compensation to which he or she is entitled as a member of the House of
Delegates, $10,000 per annum, payable in equal installments, for each year he
serves as President of the House of Delegates, but the President of the House of
Delegates shall not engage in any employment (whether as an employee or as a
self-employed individual) or hold any position (other than his or her position
as President of the House of Delegates), for which he or she is compensated in
an amount in excess of his or her actual expenses in connection therewith.

Sec. 304. Powers of the House of Delegates. (a) The legislative power granted to
the State of New Columbia by this constitution is vested in and shall be
exercised by the House of Delegates in accordance with this constitution. In
addition, except as otherwise provided in this constitution, all functions
granted to or imposed upon, or vested in or transferred to the Council of the
District of Columbia, as established by the District of Columbia Self-Government
and Governmental Reorganization Act, shall be carried out by the House of
Delegates in accordance with the provisions of this constitution.

(b) The House of Delegates shall have authority to create, abolish, or organize
any office, agency, department, or instrumentality of the government of the
State of New Columbia and to define the powers, duties, and responsibilities of
any such office, agency, department, or instrumentality.

(c) The House of Delegates shall adopt and publish rules of procedures which
shall include provisions for adequate public notification of intended actions of
the House of Delegates.

(d) Every act shall be published and codified upon becoming law as the House of
Delegates may direct.

(e) An act passed by the House of Delegates shall be presented by the President
of the House of Delegates to the Governor, who shall, within 10 calendar days
(excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays) after the act is presented to him
or her, either approve or disapprove such act. If the Governor shall approve
such act, the Governor shall indicate the same by affixing his or her signature
thereto, and such act shall become law. If the Governor shall disapprove such
act, the Governor shall, within 10 calendar days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays,
and holidays) after it is presented to him or her, return such act to the House
of Delegates setting forth in writing his or her reasons for such disapproval.
If any act so passed shall not be returned to the House of Delegates by the
Governor within 10 calendar days after it shall have been presented to the
Governor, the Governor shall be deemed to have approved it, and such act shall
become law unless the House of Delegates by a recess of 10 days or more prevents
its return, in which case it shall not become law. If, within 30 calendar days
after an act has been timely returned by the Governor to the House of Delegates
with his or her disapproval, two-thirds of the members of the House of Delegates
present and voting vote to reenact such act, the act so reenacted shall become
law.

(f) In the case of any budget act adopted by the House of Delegates pursuant to
section 606 and submitted to the Governor in accordance with subsection (e) of
this section, the Governor shall have power to disapprove any items or
provisions, or both, of such act and approve the remainder. In any case in which
the Governor so disapproves of any item or provision, he or she shall append to
the act when he or she signs it a statement of the item or provision which he or
she disapproves, and shall, within such 10-day period, return a copy of the act
and statement with his or her objections to the House of Delegates. If, within
30 calendar days after any such item or provision so disapproved has been timely
returned by the Governor to the House of Delegates, two-thirds of the members of
the House of Delegates present and voting vote to reenact any such item or
provision, such item or provision so reenacted shall become law. In any case in
which the Governor fails to timely return any such item or provision so
disapproved to the House of Delegates, the Governor shall be deemed to have
approved such item or provision not returned and such item or provision not
returned shall become law.

Sec. 305. The President of the House of Delegates. (a) The President of the
House of Delegates shall be the presiding officer of the House of Delegates.

(b) When the Office of Governor is vacant, the President of the House of
Delegates shall act in the Governor's stead. While the President of the House of
Delegates is acting Governor he or she shall not exercise any of his or her
authority as President of the House of Delegates or member of the House of
Delegates.

Sec. 306. Acts; resolutions; requirements for quorum. (a) (1) The House of
Delegates, to discharge the powers and duties imposed herein, shall pass acts
and adopt resolutions, upon a vote of a majority of the members of the House of
Delegates present and voting, unless otherwise provided in this constitution or
by the House of Delegates. Except as provided in paragraph (3) of this
subsection, the House of Delegates shall use acts for all legislative purposes.
Each proposed act (other than an act to which section 606 applies) shall be read
twice in substantially the same form, with at least 13 days intervening between
each reading.
(2) Upon final adoption by the House of Delegates each act shall be made
immediately available to the public in a manner which the House of Delegates
shall determine. If the House of Delegates determines, by a vote of two-thirds
of the members, that emergency circumstances make it necessary that an act be
passed after a single reading, or that it take effect immediately upon
enactment, such act shall be effective for a period of not to exceed 90 days.
(3) Resolutions shall be used (A) to express simple determinations, decisions,
or directions of the House of Delegates of a special or temporary character; and
(B) to approve or disapprove proposed actions of a kind historically or
traditionally transmitted by the Mayor of the District of Columbia, the Board of
Elections and Ethics, Public Service Commission, Armory Board, Board of
Education, the Board of Trustees of the University of the State of New Columbia,
or the Convention Center Board of Directors to the Council of the District of
Columbia pursuant to an act. Such resolutions must be specifically authorized by
that act and must be designed to implement that act.

(b) A special election may be called by resolution of the House of Delegates to
present for an advisory referendum vote of the people any proposition upon which
the House of Delegates desires to take action.

(c) A majority of the House of Delegates shall constitute a quorum for the
lawful convening of any meeting and for the transaction of business of the House
of Delegates, except a lesser number may hold hearings.

Sec. 307. Investigations by the House of Delegates. (a) The House of Delegates,
or any committee or person authorized by it, shall have power to investigate any
matter relating to the affairs of the State of New Columbia, and for that
purpose may require the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production
of books, papers, and other evidence. For such purpose any member of the House
of Delegates (if the House of Delegates is conducting the inquiry) or any member
of the committee may issue subpoenas, and administer oaths upon resolution
adopted by the House of Delegates or committee, as appropriate.

(b) In case of contumacy by, or refusal to obey a subpoena issued to, any
person, the House of Delegates by resolution may seek from the Superior Court of
the State of New Columbia an order requiring such person to appear and give or
produce testimony or books, papers, or other evidence, bearing upon the matter
under investigation. Any failure to obey such order may be punished by such
Court as a contempt thereof as in the case of failure to obey a subpoena issued
in a case pending before such Court.

Sec. 308. Limitations on the House of Delegates. The House of Delegates shall
have no authority to pass any act contrary to the provisions of this
constitution except as specifically provided in this constitution, or to
(1) impose any tax on property of the United States or any of the several
States;
(2) lend the public credit for support of any private undertaking;
(3) enact any act, or enact any act to amend or repeal any Act of Congress,
which concerns the functions or property of the United States or which is not
restricted in its application exclusively in or to the State of New Columbia;
(4) enact any act, resolution or rule which permits the building of any
structure within the State of New Columbia in excess of the height limitations
contained in section 5 of the Act of June 1, 1910, and in effect on the date of
enactment of this constitution;
(5) enact any act or regulation relating to any court of the United States, or
relating to the duties or powers of any United States attorney or any United
States Marshal for the State of New Columbia.

Sec. 309. House of Delegates authority over elections. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this constitution or of any other law, the House of Delegates shall
have authority to enact any act or resolution with respect to matters involving
or relating to elections in the State of New Columbia.

ARTICLE IV. THE EXECUTIVE BRANCHSec. 401. Election; qualification; vacancy;
compensation. (a) The executive power of the State of New Columbia shall be
vested in the Governor who shall be responsible for the faithful execution of
the laws relating to the State of New Columbia and who shall be elected by the
registered qualified electors of the State of New Columbia.

(b) The Governor, established by subsection (a) of this section, shall be
elected, on a partisan basis, for a term of 4 years beginning at noon on January
2nd of the year following his or her election.

(c) (1) No person shall hold the Office of Governor unless he or she:
(A) Is a qualified elector;
(B) has resided and been domiciled in the State of New Columbia for 1 year
immediately preceding the day on which the general or special election for
Governor is to be held; and
(C) is not engaged in any employment (whether as an employee or as a
self-employed individual) and holds no public office or position (other than his
or her employment in and position as Governor), for which he or she is
compensated in an amount in excess of his or her actual expenses in connection
therewith, except that nothing in this clause shall be construed as prohibiting
such person, while holding the Office of Governor, from serving as a delegate or
alternate delegate to a convention of a political party nominating candidates
for President and Vice President of the United States, or from holding an
appointment in a reserve component of an armed force of the United States other
than a member serving on active duty under a call for more than 30 days. The
Governor shall forfeit his or her office upon failure to maintain the
qualifications required by this paragraph.
(2) To fill a vacancy in the Office of Governor, the Board of Elections and
Ethics shall hold a special election in the State of New Columbia on the 1st
Tuesday occurring more than 114 days after the date on which such vacancy
occurs, unless the Board of Elections and Ethics determines that such vacancy
could be more practicably filled in a special election held on the same day as
the next general election to be held in the State of New Columbia occurring
within 60 days of the date on which a special election would otherwise have been
held under the provisions of this paragraph. The person elected Governor to fill
a vacancy in the Office of Governor shall take office on the day on which the
Board of Elections and Ethics certifies his or her election, and shall serve as
Governor only for the remainder of the term during which such vacancy occurred.
When the Office of Governor becomes vacant the President of the House of
Delegates shall become acting Governor and shall serve from the date such
vacancy occurs until the date on which the Board of Elections and Ethics
certifies the election of the new Governor at which time he or she shall again
become President of the House of Delegates. While the President of the House of
Delegates is acting Governor, the President of the House of Delegates shall
receive the compensation regularly paid the Governor, and shall receive no
compensation as President of the House of Delegates or member of the House of
Delegates. While the President of the House of Delegates is acting Governor, the
House of Delegates shall select one of the elected at-large members of the House
of Delegates to serve as President of the House of Delegates and one to serve as
President of the House of Delegates pro tempore, until the return of the
regularly elected President of the House of Delegates.

(d) The Governor shall receive compensation, payable in equal installments, at
the rate of pay provided to the Mayor of the District of Columbia as of the
effective date of this constitution with automatic annual increases at the
percentage rate afforded to career service employees of the State of New
Columbia not represented by collective bargaining unless the House of Delegates
by act changes the rate. Such change in such compensation, upon enactment by the
House of Delegates in accordance with the provisions of this constitution, shall
apply with respect to the term of Governor next beginning after the date of such
change. In addition, the Governor may receive an allowance, in such amount as
the House of Delegates may from time to time establish, for official, reception,
and representation expenses, which he or she shall certify in reasonable detail
to the House of Delegates.

(e) No person shall be elected Governor of the State of New Columbia for more
than 2 consecutive terms. For purposes of this subsection, any person who fills
a vacancy in the office of Governor for more than one half of the term to which
another person was first elected shall be considered to have served one term.

Sec. 402. Powers and duties. The Governor shall be the chief executive officer
of the State of New Columbia government. In addition, except as otherwise
provided in this constitution, all functions granted to or vested in the Mayor
of the District of Columbia, as established by the District of Columbia
Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization Act, shall be carried out by the
Governor in accordance with this constitution. The Governor shall be responsible
for the proper execution of all laws relating to the State of New Columbia, and
for the proper administration of the affairs of the State of New Columbia coming
under his or her jurisdiction or control, including but not limited to the
following powers, duties, and functions:
(1) The Governor may designate the officer or officers of the executive
department of the State of New Columbia who may, during periods of disability or
absence from the State of New Columbia of the Governor, execute and perform the
powers and duties of the Governor;
(2) The Governor shall administer all laws relating to the appointment,
promotion, discipline, separation, and other conditions of employment of
personnel in the Office of the Governor, personnel in executive departments of
the State of New Columbia, and members of boards, commissions, and other
agencies;
(3) The Governor shall, through the heads of administrative boards, offices, and
agencies, supervise and direct the activities of such boards, offices, and
agencies;
(4) The Governor may submit drafts of acts to the House of Delegates;
(5) The Governor may delegate any of his or her functions (other than the
function of approving or disapproving acts passed by the House of Delegates) to
any officer, employee, or agency of the executive office of the Governor, or to
any director of an executive department who may, with the approval of the
Governor, make a further delegation of all or a part of such functions to
subordinates under his or her jurisdiction;
(6) The Governor, as custodian thereof, shall use and authenticate the corporate
seal of the State of New Columbia in accordance with law;
(7) The Governor shall appoint a State of New Columbia Administrator, who shall
serve at the pleasure of the Governor. The State of New Columbia Administrator
shall be the chief administrative officer of the Governor, and shall assist the
Governor in carrying out the Governor's functions under this constitution, and
shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the
Governor.
(8) The Governor shall have the right, under rules to be adopted by the House of
Delegates, to be heard by the House of Delegates or any of its committees;
(9) The Governor is authorized to issue and enforce administrative orders, not
inconsistent with this constitution, or with any act of the House of Delegates,
as are necessary to carry out his or her functions and duties;
(10) The Governor may reorganize the offices, agencies, and other entities
within the executive branch of the government of the State of New Columbia by
submitting to the House of Delegates a detailed plan of such reorganization.
Such a reorganization plan shall be valid only if the House of Delegates does
not adopt, within 60 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays) after
such reorganization plan is submitted to it by the Governor, a resolution
disapproving such reorganization; and
(11) The Governor shall have plenary power to grant pardons, commutations, and
reprieves, and to remit fines and forfeitures, for all offenses against the laws
of the State of New Columbia.

Sec. 403. State planning. (a) The Governor shall be the central planning agency
for the State of New Columbia. The Governor shall be responsible for the
coordination of planning activities of the state government and the preparation
and implementation of the State of New Columbia's elements of the comprehensive
plan for the National Capital which may include land use elements, urban renewal
and redevelopment elements, a multi-year program of public works for the State
of New Columbia, and physical, social, economic, transportation, and population
elements. In carrying out his or her responsibilities under this section, the
Governor shall establish procedures for citizen involvement in the planning
process and for appropriate meaningful consultation with any state or local
government or planning agency in the National Capital region affected by any
aspect of a proposed State of New Columbia element of the comprehensive plan
(including amendments thereto) affecting or relating to the State of New
Columbia.

(b) The Governor shall submit the State of New Columbia's elements and
amendments thereto to the House of Delegates for revision or modification, and
adoption by act, following public hearings.

Sec. 404. Establishment of the Office of Attorney General. (a) (1) There is
established within the State of New Columbia government an Office of the
Attorney General for the State of New Columbia headed by an Attorney General.
(2) The Attorney General shall be appointed by the Governor with the advice and
consent of the House of Delegates. The Attorney General shall serve at the
pleasure of the Governor for a term of 4 years coterminous with the term of the
office of the Governor as set by section 401. At the expiration of the term of
office of the Attorney General, the Governor may appoint an Acting Attorney
General to serve for no longer than 120 days. If the Governor fails to submit a
nomination for Attorney General within 60 days of the expiration of the prior
Attorney General's term of office, the Governor shall be deemed to have
submitted the nomination of the Acting Attorney General to the House of
Delegates for appointment pursuant to this subsection.
(3) A vacancy in the office of the Attorney General shall be filled in the same
manner in which the original appointment is made. Any person so appointed to
fill such a vacancy shall serve only for the remainder of the unexpired term of
his or her predecessor.
(4) No person may be nominated as Attorney General of the State of New Columbia
unless he or she:
(A) Is a citizen of the United States;
(B) Is an active member of the unified bar created pursuant to the rules of the
State of New Columbia Court of Appeals and, for the five years immediately
preceding nomination, has been engaged in the active practice of law in the
State of New Columbia, has been on the faculty of a law school in the State of
New Columbia, or has been employed as a lawyer by the United States or the State
of New Columbia government; and
(C) Is a bona fide resident of the State of New Columbia and has maintained an
actual place of abode in the State of New Columbia for at least ninety days
immediately prior to nomination, and shall retain such residency as long as he
or she serves as such Attorney General of the State of New Columbia.
(5) The Attorney General for the State of New Columbia shall be the chief legal
officer for the State of New Columbia and have charge of all law business of the
State of New Columbia. In the performance of such duties he or she shall:
(A) Have charge of the prosecution of all violations of the laws of the State of
New Columbia;
(B) Have charge and conduct of all civil actions, suits or proceedings
instituted by and against the State of New Columbia or its agencies or entities
(including the independent agencies upon their request), or in which the State
of New Columbia is concerned, including all actions in which the
constitutionality or validity of the laws of the State of New Columbia are
challenged;
(C) Render written legal opinions and advice to the Governor, the House of
Delegates, and the heads of agencies and entities of the State of New Columbia
government (including the independent agencies upon their request), which
opinions, in the absence of specific action by the Governor or act of the House
of Delegates to the contrary, or until overruled by controlling court decision,
shall be the guiding statement of law, to be followed by all State of New
Columbia executive branch officers and employees in the performance of their
official duties;
(D) Render, upon request, written legal opinions and advice on matters
pertaining to the State of New Columbia to the President and Congress of the
United States;
(E) Make recommendations to the Governor with respect to the pardon or the
commutation of the sentences of persons convicted of crimes against the State of
New Columbia;
(F) Develop criminal justice and law enforcement policies and assist the
Governor, as directed, in the implementation of these policies;
(G) Perform all functions granted to or vested in the Corporation Counsel of the
District of Columbia by law prior to the effective date of this constitution;
(H) Have the authority to appoint special counsel for a particular purpose or
designated proceeding and to determine the compensation, powers, duties, and the
length and manner of service of such special counsel; and
(I) Perform such other functions that the Governor may from time to time
delegate to him or her.

(b) All prisoners convicted in a State of New Columbia court for any offense,
including violations of municipal regulations and ordinances, shall be committed
for their terms of imprisonment, and to such types of institutions as the court
may direct, to the custody of the Attorney General of the State of New Columbia
or his or her authorized representative, who shall designate the places of
confinements where the sentences of all such persons shall be served.

(c) The Attorney General for the State of New Columbia shall appoint a Marshal
of the State of New Columbia who will assist the courts of the State of New
Columbia and whose duties shall be as more fully prescribed by the House of
Delegates.

ARTICLE V. THE JUDICIAL BANCHSec. 501. Judicial powers. (a) The judicial power of the State of New Columbia
is vested in the State of New Columbia Court of Appeals and the Superior Court
of the State of New Columbia. The Superior Court has jurisdiction of any civil
action or other matter (at law or in equity) brought in the State of New
Columbia and of any criminal case under any law applicable exclusively to the
State of New Columbia. The Superior Court has no jurisdiction over any civil or
criminal matter over which a United States court has exclusive jurisdiction
pursuant to an Act of Congress. The Court of Appeals has jurisdiction of appeals
from the Superior Court and, to the extent provided by law, to review orders and
decisions of the Governor, the House of Delegates, or any agency of the State of
New Columbia. The State of New Columbia courts shall also have jurisdiction over
any other matters granted to the State of New Columbia courts by other
provisions of law.

(b) The chief judge of a State of New Columbia court shall be designated by the
State of New Columbia Judicial Nominating Commission established by section 504
from among the judges of the court in regular active service, and shall serve as
chief judge for a term of four years or until his or her successor is
designated, except that his or her term as chief judge shall not extend beyond
the chief judge's term as a judge of a State of New Columbia court. He or she
shall be eligible for redesignation as chief judge.

(c) A judge of a State of New Columbia court shall be appointed for a term of
fifteen years subject to mandatory retirement at age seventy-four or removal,
suspension, or involuntary retirement pursuant to section 502 and upon
completion of such term, such judge shall continue to serve until reappointed or
a successor is appointed and qualifies. A judge may be reappointed as provided
in subsection (c) of section 503.

(d) (1) There is established a State of New Columbia Commission on Judicial
Disabilities and Tenure (hereinafter referred to as the "Tenure Commission").
The Tenure Commission shall consist of five members selected in accordance with
the provisions of subsection (e). Such members shall serve for terms of 6 years.
(2) The Tenure Commission shall act only at meetings called by the Chair or a
majority of the Tenure Commission held after notice has been given of such
meeting to all Tenure Commission members.
(3) The Tenure Commission shall choose annually, from among its members, a Chair
and such other officers as it may deem necessary. The Tenure Commission may
adopt such rules of procedures not inconsistent with this constitution as may be
necessary to govern the business of the Tenure Commission.
(4) The State of New Columbia government shall furnish to the Tenure Commission,
upon the request of the Tenure Commission, such records, information, services,
and such other assistance and facilities as may be necessary to enable the
Tenure Commission properly to perform its functions. Information so furnished
shall be treated by the Tenure Commission as privileged and confidential.

(e) (1) No person may be appointed to the Tenure Commission unless he or she:
(A) is a citizen of the United States;
(B) is a bona fide resident of the State of New Columbia and has maintained an
actual place of abode in the State of New Columbia for at least ninety days
immediately prior to appointment; and
(C) is not an officer or employee of the legislative branch or of an executive
or military department or agency of the United States; and is not an officer or
employee of the judicial branch of the United States, or an officer or employee
of the State of New Columbia government (including its judicial branch).
(2) Any vacancy on the Tenure Commission shall be filled in the same manner in
which the original appointment was made. Any person so appointed to fill a
vacancy occurring other than upon the expiration of a prior term shall serve
only for the remainder of the unexpired term of his or her predecessor.
(3) In addition to all other qualifications listed in this section, lawyer
members of the Tenure Commission shall have the qualifications prescribed for
persons appointed as judges of the State of New Columbia courts. Members of the
Tenure Commission shall be appointed as follows:
(A) Two members shall be appointed by the governing body of the unified bar
created pursuant to the rules of the State of New Columbia Court of Appeals,
both of whom shall have been engaged in the practice of law in the State of New
Columbia for at least five successive years preceding their appointment.
(B) Two members shall be appointed by the Governor, one of whom shall not be a
lawyer.
(C) One member shall be appointed by the House of Delegates, and shall not be a
lawyer.

No person may serve at the same time on both the State of New Columbia Judicial
Nomination Commission and on the State of New Columbia Commission on Judicial
Disabilities and Tenure.

(f) Members of the Tenure Commission shall receive compensation at the rate
provided by act of the House of Delegates while actually engaged in service for
the Commission.

(g) The Tenure Commission shall have the power to suspend, retire, or remove a
judge of a State of New Columbia court as provided in section 502 and to make
recommendations regarding the appointment of senior judges of the State of New
Columbia courts.

Sec. 502. Removal; suspension; involuntary retirement. (a) (1) A judge of a
State of New Columbia court shall be removed from office upon the filing in the
State of New Columbia Court of Appeals by the Tenure Commission of an order of
removal certifying the entry, in any court within the United States, of a final
judgment of conviction of a crime which is punishable as a felony under Federal
law or which would be a felony in the State of New Columbia.
(2) A judge of a State of New Columbia court shall also be removed from office
upon affirmance of an appeal from an order of removal filed in the State of New
Columbia Court of Appeals by the Tenure Commission (or upon expiration of the
time within which such an appeal may be taken) after a determination by the
Tenure Commission of --
(A) willful misconduct in office,
(B) willful and persistent failure to perform judicial duties, or
(C) any other conduct which is prejudicial to the administration of justice or
which brings the judicial office into disrepute.

(b) A judge of a State of New Columbia court shall be involuntarily retired from
office when (1) the Tenure Commission determines that the judge suffers from a
mental or physical disability (including habitual intemperance) which is or is
likely to become permanent and which prevents, or seriously interferes with, the
proper performance of his or her judicial duties, and (2) the Tenure Commission
files in the State of New Columbia Court of Appeals an order of involuntary
retirement and the order is affirmed on appeal or the time within which an
appeal may be taken from the order has expired.

(c) (1) A judge of a State of New Columbia court shall be suspended, without
salary --
(A) upon --
(i) proof of his or her conviction of a crime referred to in subsection (a)(1)
which has not become final, or
(ii) the filing of an order of removal under subsection (a)(2) which has not
become final; and
(B) upon the filing by the Tenure Commission of an order of suspension in the
State of New Columbia Court of Appeals.
Suspension under this paragraph shall continue until termination of all appeals.
If the conviction is reversed or the order of removal is set aside, the judge
shall be reinstated and shall recover his or her salary and all rights and
privileges of his or her office.
(2) A judge of a State of New Columbia court shall be suspended from all
judicial duties, with such retirement salary as he or she may be entitled, upon
the filing by the Tenure Commission of an order of involuntary retirement under
subsection (b) in the State of New Columbia Court of Appeals. Suspension shall
continue until termination of all appeals. If the order of involuntary
retirement is set aside, the judge shall be reinstated and shall recover his or
her judicial salary less any retirement salary received and shall be entitled to
all the rights and privileges of his or her office.
(3) A judge of a State of New Columbia court shall be suspended from all or part
of his or her judicial duties, with salary, if the Tenure Commission, upon
concurrence of 3 members, (A) orders a hearing for the removal or retirement of
the judge pursuant to this article and determines that his or her suspension is
in the interest of the administration of justice, and (B) files an order of
suspension in the State of New Columbia Court of Appeals. The suspension shall
terminate as specified in the order (which may be modified, as appropriate, by
the Tenure Commission) but in no event later than the termination of all
appeals.

Sec. 503. Nomination and appointment of judges. (a) Except as provided in
section 504(d)(1), the Governor shall nominate, from the list of persons
recommended to him or her by the State of New Columbia Judicial Nomination
Commission established under section 504, and, by and with the advice and
consent of the House of Delegates, appoint all judges of the State of New
Columbia courts.

(b) No person may be nominated or appointed a judge of a State of New Columbia
court unless he or she:
(1) is a citizen of the United States;
(2) is an active member of the unified bar created pursuant to the rules of the
State of New Columbia Court of Appeals and, for the five years immediately
preceding nomination, has been engaged in the active practice of law in the
State of New Columbia, has been on the faculty of a law school in the State of
New Columbia, or has been employed as a lawyer by the United States or the State
of New Columbia government;
(3) is a bona fide resident of the State of New Columbia and has maintained an
actual place of abode in the State of New Columbia for at least ninety days
immediately prior to nomination, and shall retain such residency as long as he
or she serves as such judge, except judges appointed prior to January 2, 1975,
who retain residency as required at the time of their first appointment shall
not be required to be residents of the State of New Columbia to be eligible for
reappointment or to serve any term to which reappointed;
(4) is recommended to the Governor, for such nomination and appointment, by the
State of New Columbia Judicial Nomination Commission; and
(5) has not served, within a period of two years prior to nomination, as a
member of the Tenure Commission or of the State of New Columbia Judicial
Nomination Commission.

(c) Not less than three months prior to the expiration of his or her term of
office, any judge of the State of New Columbia courts may file with the Tenure
Commission a declaration of candidacy for reappointment. If a declaration is not
so filed by any judge, a vacancy shall result from the expiration of his or her
term of office and shall be filled by appointment as provided in subsections (a)
and (b). If a declaration is so filed, the Tenure Commission shall, not less
than thirty days prior to the expiration of the declaring candidate's term of
office, prepare and submit to the Governor a written evaluation of the declaring
candidate's performance during his or her present term of office and his or her
fitness for reappointment to another term. If the Tenure Commission determines
the declaring candidate to be exceptionally well qualified or well qualified for
reappointment to another term, then the term of such declaring candidate shall
be automatically extended for another full term, subject to mandatory
retirement, suspension, or removal. If the Tenure Commission determines the
declaring candidate to be qualified for reappointment to another term, then the
Governor may nominate such candidate, in which case the Governor shall submit to
the House of Delegates for advice and consent the renomination of the declaring
candidate as judge. If the Governor determines not to so nominate such declaring
candidate, the Governor shall nominate another candidate for such position only
in accordance with the provisions of subsections (a) and (b). If the Tenure
Commission determines the declaring candidate to be unqualified for
reappointment to another term, then the Governor shall not submit to the House
of Delegates for advice and consent the renomination of the declaring candidate
as judge and such judge shall not be eligible for reappointment or appointment
as a judge of a State of New Columbia court.

Sec. 504. State of New Columbia Judicial Nomination Commission. (a) There is
established for the State of New Columbia the State of New Columbia Judicial
Nomination Commission (hereafter in this section referred to as the
"Commission"). The Commission shall consist of 5 members selected in accordance
with the provisions of subsection (b). Such members shall serve for terms of six
years.
(b) (1) No person may be appointed to the Commission unless he or she:
(A) is a citizen of the United States;
(B) is a bona fide resident of the State of New Columbia and has maintained an
actual place of abode in the State of New Columbia for at least 90 days
immediately prior to appointment; and
(C) is not a member, officer, or employee of the legislative branch or of an
executive or military department or agency of the United States; and is not an
officer or employee of the judicial branch of the United States, or an officer
or employee of the State of New Columbia government (including its judicial
branch).
(2) Any vacancy on the Commission shall be filled in the same manner in which
the original appointment was made. Any person so appointed to fill a vacancy
occurring other than upon the expiration of a prior term shall serve only for
the remainder of the unexpired term of his or her predecessor.
(3) It shall be the function of the Commission to submit nominees for
appointment to positions as judges of the State of New Columbia courts in
accordance with section 503 of this constitution.
(4) In addition to all other qualifications listed in this section, lawyer
members of the Commission shall have the qualifications prescribed for persons
appointed as judges for the State of New Columbia courts. Members of the
Commission shall be appointed as follows:
(A) Two members shall be appointed by the governing body of the unified bar
created pursuant to the rules of the State of New Columbia Court of Appeals,
both of whom shall have been engaged in the practice of law in the State of New
Columbia for at least five successive years preceding their appointment.
(B) Two members shall be appointed by the Governor, one of whom shall not be a
lawyer.
(C) One member shall be appointed by the House of Delegates, and shall not be a
lawyer.
(5) Members of the Commission shall receive compensation at the rate provided by
act of the House of Delegates while actually engaged in service for the
Commission.

(c) (1) The Commission shall act only at meetings called by the Chair or a
majority of the Commission held after notice has been given of such meeting to
all Commission members.
(2) The Commission shall choose annually, from among its members, a Chair, and
such other officers as it may deem necessary. The Commission may adopt such
rules of procedures not inconsistent with this constitution as may be necessary
to govern the business of the Commission.
(3) The State of New Columbia government shall furnish to the Commission, upon
the request of the Commission, such records, information, services, and such
other assistance and facilities as may be necessary to enable the Commission
properly to perform its function. Information so furnished shall be treated by
the Commission as privileged and confidential.

(d) (1) In the event of a vacancy in any position of the judge of a State of New
Columbia court, the Commission shall, within thirty days following the
occurrence of such vacancy, submit to the Governor, for possible nomination and
appointment, a list of three persons for each vacancy. If more than one vacancy
exists at one given time, the Commission must submit lists in which no person is
named more than once and the Governor may select more than one nominee from one
list. Whenever a vacancy will occur by reason of the expiration of such a
judge's term of office, the Commission's list of nominees shall be submitted to
the Governor not less than thirty days prior to the occurrence of such vacancy.
In the event the Governor fails to nominate, for House of Delegates
confirmation, one of the persons on the list submitted to him or her under this
section within sixty days after receiving such list, the Commission shall
nominate, and with the advice and consent of the House of Delegates, appoint one
of those persons to fill the vacancy for which such list was originally
submitted to the Governor.
(2) In the event any person recommended by the Commission to the Governor
requests that his or her recommendation be withdrawn, dies, or in any other way
becomes disqualified to serve as a judge of the State of New Columbia courts,
the Commission shall promptly recommend to the Governor one person to replace
the person originally recommended.
(3) In no instance shall the Commission recommend any person, who in the event
of timely nomination following a recommendation by the Commission, does not
meet, upon such nomination, the qualifications specified in section 503.

ARTICLE VI. BUDGET AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENTSec. 601. Fiscal year. The House of Delegates shall provide by act the fiscal
year of the State of New Columbia.

Sec. 602. Submission of annual budget. (a) At such time as the House of
Delegates may direct, the Governor shall prepare and submit to the House of
Delegates each year, and make available to the public, an annual budget for the
State of New Columbia government which shall include:
(1) The budget for the forthcoming fiscal year in such detail as the Governor
determines necessary to reflect the actual financial condition of the State of
New Columbia government for such fiscal year, and specify the agencies and
purposes for which funds are being requested; and which shall be prepared on the
assumption that proposed expenditures resulting from financial transactions
undertaken on either an obligation or cash outlay basis, for such fiscal year
shall not exceed estimated resources from existing sources and proposed
resources;
(2) An annual budget message which shall include supporting financial and
statistical information on the budget for the forthcoming fiscal year and
information on the approved budgets and expenditures for the immediately
preceding 3 fiscal years;
(3) A multiyear plan for all agencies of the State of New Columbia government as
required under section 603;
(4) A multiyear capital improvements plan for all agencies of the State of New
Columbia government as required under section 604;
(5) A program performance report comparing actual performance of as many
programs as is practicable for the last completed fiscal year against proposed
goals for such programs for such year, and, in addition, presenting as many
qualitative or quantitative measures of program effectiveness as possible
(including results of statistical sampling or other special analyses), and
indicating the status of efforts to comply with the reports of the State of New
Columbia Auditor;
(6) An issue analysis statement consisting of a reasonable number of issues,
identified by the House of Delegates in its action on the budget in the
preceding fiscal year, having significant revenue or budgetary implications, and
other similar issues selected by the Governor, which shall consider the cost and
benefits of alternatives and the rationale behind action recommended or adopted;
and
(7) A summary of the budget for the forthcoming fiscal year designed for
distribution to the general public.

(b) The budget prepared and submitted by the Governor shall include, but not be
limited to, recommended expenditures at a reasonable level for the forthcoming
fiscal year for the House of Delegates, the State of New Columbia Auditor, the
State of New Columbia Board of Elections and Ethics, the State of New Columbia
Judicial Nomination Commission, the Zoning Commission of the State of New
Columbia, the Public Service Commission, the Armory Board, and the Commission on
Judicial Disabilities and Tenure.

(c) The Governor from time to time may prepare and submit to the House of
Delegates such proposed supplemental or deficiency budget recommendations as in
his or her judgment are necessary on account of laws enacted after transmission
of the budget or are otherwise in the public interest. The Governor shall submit
with such proposals a statement of justifications, including reasons for their
omission from the annual budget. Whenever such proposed supplemental or
deficiency budget recommendations are in an amount which would result in
expenditures in excess of estimated resources, the Governor shall make such
recommendations as are necessary to increase resources to meet such increased
expenditures.

Sec. 603. Multiyear plan. The Governor shall prepare and include in the annual
budget a multiyear plan for all agencies included in the State of New Columbia
budget, for all sources of funding, and for such program categories as the
Governor identifies. Such plan shall be based on the actual experience of the
immediately preceding 3 fiscal years, on the approved current fiscal year
budget, and on estimates for at least the 4 succeeding fiscal years. The plan
shall include, but not be limited to, provisions identifying:
(1) Future cost implications of maintaining programs at currently authorized
levels, including anticipated changes in wage, salary, and benefit levels;
(2) Future cost implications of all capital projects for which funds have
already been authorized, including identification of the amount of already
appropriated but unexpended capital project funds;
(3) Future cost implications of new, improved, or expanded programs and capital
project commitments proposed for each of the succeeding 4 fiscal years;
(4) The effects of current and proposed capital projects on future operating
budget requirements;
(5) Revenues and funds likely to be available from existing revenue sources at
current rates or levels;
(6) The specific revenue and tax measures recommended for the forthcoming fiscal
year and for the next following fiscal year necessary to balance revenues and
expenditures;
(7) The actuarial status and anticipated costs and revenues of retirement
systems covering State of New Columbia employees; and
(8) Total debt service payments in each fiscal year in which debt service
payments must be made for all bonds which have been or will be issued, and all
loans which have been or will be received, to finance the total cost on a full
funding basis of all projects listed in the capital improvements plan prepared
under section 604; and for each such fiscal year, the percentage relationship of
the total debt service payments to the bonding limitation for the current and
forthcoming fiscal year as specified in section 719(b).

Sec. 604. Multiyear capital improvements plan. The Governor shall prepare and
include in the annual budget a multiyear capital improvements plan for all
agencies of the State of New Columbia which shall be based upon the approved
current fiscal year budget and shall include:
(1) The status, estimated period of usefulness, and total cost of each capital
project on a full funding basis for which any appropriation is requested or any
expenditure will be made in the forthcoming fiscal year and at least 4 fiscal
years thereafter, including an explanation of change in total cost in excess of
5 per centum for any capital project included in the plan of the previous fiscal
year;
(2) An analysis of the plan, including its relationship to other programs,
proposals, or elements developed by the Governor as the central planning agency
for the State of New Columbia pursuant to section 402;
(3) Identification of the years and amounts in which bonds would have to be
issued, loans made, and costs actually incurred on each capital project
identified; and
(4) Appropriate maps or other graphics.

Sec. 605. State of New Columbia courts' budget. The State of New Columbia courts
shall prepare and annually submit to the Governor, for inclusion in the annual
budget, annual estimates of the expenditures and appropriations necessary for
the maintenance and operation of the State of New Columbia court system. All
such estimates shall be forwarded by the Governor to the House of Delegates, for
its action pursuant to sections 606 and 719(b), without revision but subject to
his or her recommendations. The courts shall submit as part of their budgets
both a multiyear plan and a multiyear capital improvements plan and shall submit
a statement presenting qualitative and quantitative descriptions of court
activities and the status of efforts to comply with reports of the State of New
Columbia Auditor.

Sec. 606. Adoption of budget by House of Delegates. The House of Delegates,
within 50 calendar days after receipt of the budget proposal from the Governor,
and after public hearing, shall by act adopt the annual budget for the State of
New Columbia government. Any supplements thereto shall also be adopted by act by
the House of Delegates after public hearing. No amount may be obligated or
expended by any officer or employee of the State of New Columbia government
unless such amount has been approved by act of the House of Delegates, and then
only according to such act.

Sec. 607. Consistency of budget, accounting, and personnel systems. The Governor
shall implement appropriate procedures to insure that budget, accounting, and
personnel control systems and structures are synchronized for budgeting and
control purposes on a continuing basis. No employee shall be hired on a
full-time or part-time basis unless such position is authorized by act of the
House of Delegates. Employees shall be assigned in accordance with the program,
organization, and fund categories specified in the act of the House of Delegates
authorizing such position. Hiring of temporary employees and temporary employee
transfers among programs shall be consistent with applicable acts of the House
of Delegates and reprogramming procedures to insure that costs are accurately
associated with programs and sources of funding.

Sec. 608. Financial duties of the Governor. (a) Subject to the limitations in
section 719, the Governor shall have charge of the administration of the
financial affairs of the State of New Columbia and to that end the Governor
shall:
(1) Supervise and be responsible for all financial transactions to insure
adequate control of revenues and resources and to insure that appropriations are
not exceeded;
(2) Maintain systems of accounting and internal control designed to provide:
(A) Full disclosure of the financial results of the State of New Columbia
government's activities;
(B) Adequate financial information needed by the State of New Columbia
government for management purposes;
(C) Effective control over and accountability for all funds, property, and other
assets;
(D) Reliable accounting results to serve as the basis for preparing and
supporting agency budget requests and controlling the execution of the budget;
(3) Submit to the House of Delegates a financial statement in any detail and at
such times as the House of Delegates may specify;
(4) Submit to the House of Delegates, by February 1st of each fiscal year, a
complete financial statement and report for the preceding fiscal year;
(5) Supervise and be responsible for the assessment of all property subject to
assessment and special assessments within the limits of the State of New
Columbia for taxation, prepare tax maps, and give such notice of taxes and
special assessments, as may be required by law;
(6) Supervise and be responsible for the levying and collection of all taxes,
special assessments, license fees, and other revenues of the State of New
Columbia, as required by law, and receive all moneys receivable by the State of
New Columbia from the federal government or from any court, agency, or
instrumentality of the State of New Columbia;
(7) Have custody of all public funds belonging to or under the control of the
State of New Columbia, or any agency of the State of New Columbia government,
and deposit all funds coming into his or her hands, in such depositories as may
Be designated and under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by act of
the House of Delegates;
(8) Have custody of all investments and invested funds of the State of New
Columbia government, or in possession of such government in a fiduciary
capacity, and have the safekeeping of all bonds and notes of the State of New
Columbia and the receipt and delivery of State of New Columbia bonds and notes
for transfer, registration, or exchange; and
(9) Apportion the total of all appropriations and funds made available during
the fiscal year for obligation so as to prevent obligation or expenditure
thereof in a manner which would indicate a necessity for deficiency or
supplemental appropriations for such fiscal year, and with respect to all
appropriations or funds not limited to a definite period, and all authorizations
to create obligations by contract in advance of appropriations, apportion the
total of such appropriations or funds or authorizations so as to achieve the
most effective and economical use thereof.

(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, the Governor may make any
payments required by subsection (b) or subsection (c) of section 714 and take
any actions authorized by an act of the House of Delegates under section 707 or
under subsection (a)(4)(A) or subsection (c), of section 718. (Feb. 5, 1994,
D.C. Law 10-68, � 2, 40 DCR 6311.)

Sec. 609. Accounting supervision and control. The Governor shall:
(1) Prescribe the forms of receipts, vouchers, bills, and claims to be used by
all the agencies, offices, and instrumentalities of the State of New Columbia
government;
(2) Examine and approve all contracts, orders, and other documents by which the
State of New Columbia government incurs financial obligations, having previously
ascertained that money has been appropriated and allotted and will be available
when the obligations shall become due and payable;
(3) Audit and approve before payment all bills, invoices, payrolls, and other
evidences of claims, demands, or charges against the State of New Columbia
government and with the advice of the legal officials of the State of New
Columbia determine the regularity, legality, and correctness of such claims,
demands, or charges; and
(4) Perform internal audits of accounts and operations and agency records of the
State of New Columbia government, including the examination of any accounts or
records of financial transactions, giving due consideration to the effectiveness
of accounting systems, internal control, and related administrative practices of
the respective agencies.

Sec. 610. General and special funds. The General Fund of the State of New
Columbia shall be composed of those revenues which on the effective date of this
constitution have been paid into the Treasury of the District of Columbia and
credited either to the General Fund of the District of Columbia or its
miscellaneous receipts, but shall not include any revenues which are applied by
law to any special fund existing on the effective date of this constitution. The
House of Delegates may from time to time establish such additional special funds
as may be necessary for the efficient operation of the government of the State
of New Columbia. All money received by any agency, officer, or employee of the
State of New Columbia in its or his or her official capacity shall belong to the
State of New Columbia government and shall be paid promptly to the Governor for
deposit in the appropriate fund.

Sec. 611. Contracts extending beyond one year. No contract involving
expenditures out of an appropriation which is available for more than 1 year
shall be made for a period of more than 5 years unless, with respect to a
particular contract, the House of Delegates, by a two-thirds vote of its members
present and voting, authorizes the extension of such period for such contract.
Such contracts shall be made pursuant to criteria established by act of the
House of Delegates.

Sec. 612. Annual budget for the Board of Education. With respect to the annual
budget for the Board of Education in the State of New Columbia, the Governor and
the House of Delegates may establish the maximum amount of funds which will be
allocated to the Board, but may not specify the purposes for which such funds
may be expended or the amount of such funds which may be expended for the
various programs under the jurisdiction of the Board of Education.

Sec. 613. State of New Columbia Auditor. (a) There is established for the State
of New Columbia the Office of State of New Columbia Auditor who shall be
appointed by the President of the House of Delegates, subject to the approval of
a majority of the House of Delegates. The State of New Columbia Auditor shall
serve for a term of 6 years and shall be paid at a rate of compensation as may
be established from time to time by the House of Delegates.

(b) The State of New Columbia Auditor shall each year conduct a thorough audit
of the accounts and operations of the government of the State of New Columbia in
accordance with such principles and procedures and under such rules and
regulations as he or she may prescribe. In the determination of the auditing
procedures to be followed and the extent of the examination of vouchers and
other documents and records, the State of New Columbia Auditor shall give due
regard to generally accepted principles of auditing including the effectiveness
of the accounting organizations and systems, internal audit and control, and
related administrative practices.

(c) The State of New Columbia Auditor shall have access to all books, accounts,
records, reports, findings and all other papers, things, or property belonging
to or in use by any department, agency, or other instrumentality of the State of
New Columbia government and necessary to facilitate the audit.

(d) The State of New Columbia Auditor shall submit his or her audit reports to
the Governor and the House of Delegates. Such reports shall set forth the scope
of the audits conducted by him or her and shall include such comments and
information as the State of New Columbia Auditor may deem necessary to keep the
Governor and the House of Delegates informed of the operations to which the
reports relate, together with such recommendations with respect thereto as he or
she may deem advisable.

(e) The House of Delegates shall make such report, together with such other
material as it deems pertinent thereto, available for public inspection.

(f) The Governor shall state in writing to the House of Delegates, within an
appropriate time, what action he or she has taken to effectuate the
recommendations made by the State of New Columbia Auditor in his or her reports.

ARTICLE VII. BORROWINGSec. 701. State of New Columbia's authority to issue and
redeem general obligation bonds for capital projects. (a) Subject to the
limitations in section 719(b), the State of New Columbia may incur indebtedness
by issuing general obligation bonds to refund indebtedness of the State of New
Columbia at any time outstanding and to provide for the payment of the cost of
acquiring or undertaking its various capital projects. Such bonds shall bear
interest, payable on such dates, at such rate or rates and at such maturities as
the Governor, subject to the provisions of section 702, may from time to time
determine to be necessary to make such bonds marketable.

(b) The State of New Columbia may reserve the right to redeem any or all of its
obligations before maturity in such manner and at such price as may be fixed by
the Governor prior to the issuance of such obligations.

Sec. 702. Contents of borrowing legislation and elections on issuing general
obligation bonds. The House of Delegates may by act authorize the issuance of
general obligation bonds for the purposes specified in section 701. Such an act
shall contain, at least, provisions:
(1) Briefly describing each project to be financed by the act;
(2) Identifying the act authorizing each such project;
(3) Setting forth the maximum amount of the principal of the indebtedness which
may be incurred for each such project;
(4) Setting forth the maximum rate of interest to be paid on such indebtedness;
(5) Setting forth the maximum allowable maturity for the issue and the maximum
debt service payable in any year; and
(6) Setting forth, in the event that the House of Delegates determines in its
discretion to submit the question of issuing such bonds to a vote of the
qualified voters of the State of New Columbia, the manner of holding such
election, the manner of voting for or against the incurring of such
indebtedness, and the form of ballot to be used at such election.

Sec. 703. Publication of borrowing legislation. (a) After each act of the House
of Delegates of the State of New Columbia under section 702 authorizing the
issuance of general obligation bonds has taken effect, the Governor shall
publish such act at least once in at least 1 newspaper of general circulation
within the State of New Columbia together with a notice that such act has taken
effect. Each such notice shall be in substantially the following form:
"NOTICE
The following act of the House of Delegates of the State of New Columbia
(published with this notice) authorizing the issuance of general obligation
bonds has taken effect. As provided in the constitution of the State of New
Columbia, the time within which a suit, action or proceeding questioning the
validity of such bonds may be commenced expires at the end of the 20-day period
beginning on the date of the 1st publication of this notice.
..........................................
Governor."

(b) Neither the failure to publish the notice provided in subsection (a) of this
section nor any error in any publication of such notice shall impair the
effectiveness of the act of the House of Delegates authorizing the issuance of
such bonds or the validity of any bond issued pursuant to such act.

Sec. 704. Short period of limitation. (a) At the end of the 20-day period
beginning on the date of the 1st publication pursuant to section 703(a) of the
notice that an act authorizing the issuance of general obligation bonds has
taken effect:
(1) Any recital or statement of fact contained in such act or in the preamble or
title of such act shall be deemed to be true for the purpose of determining the
validity of the bonds authorized by such act, and the State of New Columbia and
all others interested shall be estopped from denying any such recital or
statement of fact; and
(2) Such act, and all proceedings in connection with the authorization of the
issuance of such bonds including any election held on the question of issuing
such bonds, shall be deemed to have been duly and regularly taken, passed, and
done by the State of New Columbia, in compliance with this constitution and all
other applicable laws for the purpose of determining the validity of such act
and proceedings; and no court shall have jurisdiction in any suit, action, or
proceeding questioning the validity of such act or proceedings except in a suit,
action, or proceeding commenced before the end of such 20-day period.

(b) At the end of the 20-day period beginning on the date of the 1st publication
pursuant to section 703(a) of the notice that an act authorizing the issuance of
general obligation bond has taken effect, no court shall have jurisdiction in
any suit, action, or proceeding questioning the validity of any general
obligation bond issued pursuant to such act if:
(1) Such general obligation bond was purchased in good faith and for fair value;
and
(2) Such general obligation bond contains substantially the following statement
which shall bind the State of New Columbia:
"It is hereby certified and recited that all conditions, act, and things
required by the State of New Columbia constitution and other applicable laws to
exist, to have happened, and to have been performed precedent to and in the
issuance of this bond exist, have happened, and have been performed and that the
issue of bonds, of which this is one, together with all other indebtedness of
the State of New Columbia, is within every debt and other limit prescribed by
law."

Sec. 705. Issuance of general obligation bonds. (a) After an act of the House of
Delegates authorizing the issuance of general obligation bonds under section
701(a) takes effect, the Governor may issue such general obligation bonds as
authorized by such act of the House of Delegates. An issue of general obligation
bonds may be all or any part of the aggregate principal amount of bonds
authorized by such act.

(b) The principal amount of the general obligation bonds of each issue shall be
payable in annual installments beginning not more than 3 years after the date of
such bonds and ending not more than 30 years after such date.

(c) The general obligation bonds of each issue shall be executed by the manual
or facsimile signature of such officials as may be designated to sign such bonds
by the act of the House of Delegates authorizing the issuance of the bonds,
except that at least 1 such signature shall be manual. Coupons attached to the
bonds shall be authenticated by the facsimile signature of the Governor unless
the House of Delegates provides otherwise.

Sec. 706. Public or private sale. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of
this section, general obligation bonds issued under this article shall be sold
at public sale upon sealed proposals after publication of a notice of such sale
at least once not less than 10 days prior to the date fixed for sale in a daily
newspaper carrying municipal bond notices and devoted primarily to financial
news or to the subject of state and municipal bonds published in the city of New
York, New York, and in 1 or more newspapers of general circulation published in
the State of New Columbia. Such notice shall state, among other things, that no
proposal shall be considered unless there is deposited with the State of New
Columbia as a down payment a certified check or cashier's check for an amount
equal to at least 2 per centum of the par amount of general obligation bonds bid
for, and the Governor shall reserve the right to reject any and all bids.

(b) Any issue of general obligation bonds which is additionally secured by a
security interest created in State of New Columbia revenues may be sold at
either a public sale under subsection (a) or at private sale on a negotiated
basis in such manner as the Governor may determine to be in the public interest
unless the House of Delegates, in the act authorizing the issuance of the bonds,
provides otherwise.

Sec. 707. Authority to create security interests in State of New Columbia
revenues. (a) An act of the House of Delegates authorizing the issuance of
general obligation bonds under section 701(a) may create a security interest in
any State of New Columbia revenues as additional security for the payment of the
bonds authorized by such act.

(b) Any such act creating a security interest in State of New Columbia revenues
may contain provisions (which may be part of the contract with the holders of
such bonds):
(1) Describing the particular State of New Columbia revenues which are subject
to such security interest;
(2) Creating a reasonably required debt service reserve fund or any other
special fund;
(3) Authorizing the Governor of the State of New Columbia to execute a trust
indenture securing the bonds;
(4) Vesting in the trustee under such a trust indenture such properties, rights,
powers, and duties in trust as may be necessary, convenient, or desirable;
(5) Authorizing the Governor of the State of New Columbia to enter into and
amend agreements concerning:
(A) The custody, collection, use, disposition, security, investment, and payment
of the proceeds of the bonds and the State of New Columbia revenues which are
subject to such security interest; and
(B) The doing of any act (or the refraining from doing any act) that the State
of New Columbia would have the right to do in the absence of such an agreement;
(6) Prescribing the remedies of the holders of the bonds in the event of a
default; and
(7) Authorizing the Governor of the State of New Columbia to take any other
actions in connection with the issuance, sale, delivery, security, and payment
of the bonds.

(c) Any security interest in State of New Columbia revenues created under
subsection (a) of this section shall be valid, binding, and perfected from the
time such security interest is created, with or without the physical delivery of
any funds or any other property and with or without any further action. Such
security interest shall be valid, binding, and perfected whether or not any
statement, document, or instrument relating to such security interest is
recorded or filed. The lien created by such security interest is valid, binding,
and perfected with respect to any individual or legal entity having claims
against the State of New Columbia whether or not such individual or legal entity
has notice of such lien.

Sec. 708. Borrowing to meet appropriations. (a) In the absence of unappropriated
revenues available to meet appropriations made pursuant to section 606, the
House of Delegates may by act authorize the issuance of general obligation
notes. The total amount of all such general obligation notes originally issued
during a fiscal year shall not exceed 2 per centum of the total appropriations
for the State of New Columbia for such fiscal year.

(b) Any general obligation note issued under subsection (a) of this section, as
authorized by an act of the House of Delegates, may be renewed. Any such note,
including any renewal of such note, shall be due and payable not later than the
last day of the fiscal year occurring immediately after the fiscal year during
which the act authorizing the original issuance of such note takes effect.

Sec. 709. Borrowing in anticipation of revenues. (a) In anticipation of the
collection or receipt of revenues for a fiscal year, the House of Delegates may
by act authorize the issuance of general obligation notes for such fiscal year,
to be known as revenue anticipation notes.

(b) The total amount of all revenue anticipation notes issued under subsection
(a) of this section outstanding at any time during a fiscal year shall not
exceed 20 per centum of the total anticipated revenue of the State of New
Columbia for such fiscal year, as certified by the Governor under this
subsection. The Governor shall certify, as of a date which occurs not more than
15 days before each original issuance of such revenue anticipation notes, the
total anticipated revenue of the State of New Columbia for such fiscal year.

(c) Any revenue anticipation note issued under subsection (a) of this section
may be renewed. Any such note, including any renewal of such note, shall be due
and payable not later than the last day of the fiscal year during which the note
was originally issued.

Sec. 710. Notes redeemable prior to maturity. No notes issued pursuant to this
article shall be made payable on demand, but any note may be made subject to
redemption prior to maturity on such notice and at such time as may be stated in
the note.

Sec. 711. Sales of notes. All notes issued pursuant to this article may be sold
at not less than par and accrued interest at private sale without previous
advertising.

Sec. 712. Special tax. Any act of the House of Delegates authorizing the
issuance of general obligation bonds under section 701(a) shall provide for the
annual levy of a special tax or charge, if the House of Delegates determines
that such tax or charge is necessary. Such tax or charge shall be levied,
without limitation as to rate or amount, in amounts which together with other
State of New Columbia revenues available and applicable will be sufficient to
pay the principal of and interest on such general obligation bonds as they
become due and payable. Such tax or charge shall be levied and collected at the
same time and in the same manner as other State of New Columbia taxes are levied
and collected, and when collected shall be set aside in a separate debt service
fund and irrevocably dedicated to the payment of such principal and interest.

Sec. 713. Full faith and credit of State of New Columbia pledged. The full faith
and credit of the State of New Columbia is pledged for the payment of the
principal of and interest on any general obligation bond or note issued under
section 701(a), 708(a), or 709(a), whether or not such pledge is stated in such
bond or note or in the act authorizing the issuance of such bond or note.

Sec. 714. Payment of the general obligation bonds and notes. (a) The House of
Delegates shall provide in each annual budget for the State of New Columbia
government for a fiscal year adopted by the House of Delegates pursuant to
section 606 sufficient funds to pay the principal of and interest on all general
obligation bonds or notes issued under section 701(a), 708(a), or 709(a)
becoming due and payable during such fiscal year.

(b) The Governor shall insure that the principal of and interest on all general
obligation bonds and notes issued under 701(a), 708(a), or 709(a) are paid when
due, including by paying such principal and interest from funds not otherwise
legally committed.

(c) If the Governor determines that no other funds are available to pay the
principal and interest due and payable during any fiscal year on any general
obligation bond or note issued under section 701(a), 708(a), or 709(a), the
annual federal payment appropriated for such fiscal year shall first be used to
pay such principal or interest.

Sec. 715. Tax exemption. Bonds and notes issued by the House of Delegates
pursuant to this article and the interest thereon may be exempt from all State
of New Columbia taxation except estate, inheritance, and gift taxes.

Sec. 716. Legal investment. Notwithstanding any restriction on the investment of
funds by fiduciaries contained in any other law, all domestic insurance
companies, domestic insurance associations, executors, administrators,
guardians, trustees, and other fiduciaries within the State of New Columbia may
legally invest any sinking funds, moneys, trust funds, or other funds belonging
to them or under or within their control in any bonds issued pursuant to this
article, it being the purpose of this section to authorize the investment in
such bonds or notes of all sinking, insurance, retirement, compensation,
pension, and trust funds. Banks, trust companies, building and loan
associations, and savings and loan associations, domiciled in the District, may
purchase, sell, underwrite, and deal in, for their own account or for the
account of others, all bonds or notes issued pursuant to this article. Nothing
contained in this section shall be construed as relieving any person, firm,
association, or corporation from any duty of exercising due and reasonable care
in selecting securities for purchase or investment.

Sec. 717. Financing of State of New Columbia contributions by general obligation
bonds. Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, beginning with
fiscal year 1976 the State of New Columbia share of the cost of the adopted
regional system described in the National Capital Transportation Act of 1969 may
be payable from the proceeds of the sale of State of New Columbia general
obligation bonds issued pursuant to this article.

Sec. 718. Revenue bonds and other obligations. (a) (1) The House of Delegates
may by act authorize the issuance of revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations
(including refunding bonds, notes, or other obligations) to borrow money to
finance, to refinance, or to assist in the financing or refinancing of
undertakings in the areas of housing, health facilities, transit and utility
facilities, recreational facilities, college and university facilities, college
and university programs which provide loans for the payment of educational
expenses for or on behalf of students, cultural facilities, educational
facilities, mass commuting facilities, sewage disposal facilities, solid waste
disposal facilities, facilities for the local furnishing of electric energy or
gas, facilities for the furnishing of water, local district heating or cooling
facilities, hazardous waste disposal facilities, manufacturing facilities, and
any other undertaking that the House of Delegates determines to be for a public
purpose. Any such financing or refinancing may be effected by loans made
directly or indirectly to any individual or legal entity, by the purchase of any
mortgage, note, or other security, or by the purchase, lease, or sale of any
property.
(2) Any revenue bond, note, or other obligation issued under paragraph (1) of
this subsection shall be a special obligation of the State of New Columbia and
shall be a negotiable instrument.
(3) Any revenue bond, note or other obligation issued under paragraph (1) of
this subsection shall be paid and secured (as to principal, interest, and any
premium) as provided by the act of the House of Delegates authorizing the
issuance of such bond, note, or other obligation. Subject to subsection (c) of
this section, any act of the House of Delegates authorizing the issuance of such
bond, note, or other obligation may provide for:
(A) The payment of such bond, note, or other obligation from any available
revenues, assets, or property; and
(B) The securing of such bond, note, or other obligation by the mortgage of real
property or the creation of any security interest in available revenues, assets,
or other property.
(4) (A) In authorizing the issuance of any revenue bond, note, or other
obligation under paragraph (1) of this subsection, the House of Delegates may
enter into or authorize the Governor to enter into any agreement concerning the
acquisition, use, or disposition of any funds or property. Any such agreement
may create any security interest in any funds or property, may provide for the
custody, collection, security, investment, and payment of any funds (including
any funds held in trust) for the payment of such bond, note, or other
obligation, may mortgage any property, may provide for the acquisition,
construction, maintenance, and disposition of the undertaking financed or
refinanced using the proceeds of such bond, note, or other obligation, and may
provide for the doing of any act (or the refraining from doing of any act) which
the State of New Columbia has the right to do in the absence of such agreement.
Any such agreement may be assigned for the benefit of, or made a part of any
contract with, any holder of such revenue bond, note, or other obligation issued
under paragraph (1) of this subsection.
(B) Any security interest created under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph shall
be valid, binding, and perfected from the time such security interest is
created, with or without the physical delivery or [of] any funds or any other
property and with or without any further action. Such security interest shall be
valid, binding, and perfected whether or not any statement, document, or
instrument relating to such security interest is recorded or filed. The lien
created by such security interest is valid, binding, and perfected with respect
to any individual or legal entity having claims against the State of New
Columbia, whether or not such individual or legal entity has notice of such
lien.
(C) Any funds of the State of New Columbia held for the payment or security of
any revenue bond, note, or other obligation issued under paragraph (1) of this
subsection, whether or not such funds are held in trust, may be secured in the
manner agreed to by the State of New Columbia and any depository of such funds.
Any depository of such funds may give security for the deposit of such funds.

(b) Any and all such bonds, notes, or other obligations shall not be general
obligations of the State of New Columbia and shall not be a pledge of or involve
the faith and credit or the taxing power of the State of New Columbia, shall not
constitute a debt of the State of New Columbia, and shall not constitute lending
of the public credit for private undertakings as contained in section 308(2).

(c) Any and all such bonds, notes, or other obligations shall be issued pursuant
to an act of the House of Delegates without the necessity of submitting the
question of such issuance to the registered qualified electors of the State of
New Columbia for approval or disapproval.

(d) Any act of the House of Delegates authorizing the issuance of revenue bonds,
notes, or other obligations under paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of this
section may:
(1) Briefly describe the purpose for which such bonds, notes, or other
obligations are to be issued;
(2) Identify the act authorizing such purpose;
(3) Prescribe the form, terms, provisions, manner and method of issuing and
selling (including sale by negotiation or by competitive bid) such bonds, notes,
or other obligations;
(4) Provide for the rights and remedies of the holders of such bonds, notes, or
other obligations upon default;
(5) Prescribe any other details with respect to the issuance, sale, or securing
of such bonds, notes, or other obligations; and
(6) Authorize the Governor to take any actions in connection with the issuance,
sale, delivery, security, and payment of such notes, bonds, or other
obligations, including the prescribing of any terms or conditions not contained
in such act of the House of Delegates.

(e) (1) The House of Delegates may delegate to any housing finance agency
established by it (whether established before or after the date of enactment of
this subsection) the authority of the House of Delegates under subsection (a) of
this section to issue revenue bonds, notes, and other obligations to borrow
money to finance or assist in the financing of undertakings in the area of
primarily low- and moderate-income housing. The House of Delegates shall define
for the purposes of the preceding sentence what undertakings shall constitute
undertakings in the area of primarily low- and moderate-income housing. Any such
housing finance agency may exercise authority delegated to it by the House of
Delegates as described in the 1st sentence of this paragraph (whether such
delegation is made before or after the date of enactment of this subsection)
only in accordance with this subsection.
(2) Revenue bonds, notes, and other obligations issued by a housing finance
agency of the State of New Columbia under a delegation of authority described in
paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be issued by resolution of the agency,
and any such resolution shall not be considered to be an act of the House of
Delegates.

Sec. 719. Limitations on borrowing and spending. (a) (1) No general obligation
bonds (other than bonds to refund outstanding indebtedness) or capital project
loans shall be issued during any fiscal year in an amount which would cause the
amount of principal and interest required to be paid both serially and into a
sinking fund in any fiscal year on the aggregate amounts of all outstanding
general obligation bonds and such loans, to exceed 14 per centum of the State of
New Columbia revenues (less court fees, any fees or revenues directed to
servicing revenue bonds, retirement contributions, revenues from retirement
systems, and revenues derived from such loans and the sale of general obligation
or revenue bonds) which the Governor estimates, and the State of New Columbia
Auditor certifies, will be credited to the State of New Columbia during the
fiscal year in which the bonds will be issued. Capital project loans include all
borrowings from the United States Treasury, except those funds advanced to the
State of New Columbia by the Secretary of the Treasury under the provisions of
section 2 of title VII of the District of Columbia Revenue Act of 1937.
(2) Obligations incurred pursuant to the authority contained in the District of
Columbia Stadium Act of 1957, and obligations incurred by the Redevelopment Land
Agency and the National Capital Housing Authority shall not be included in
determining the aggregate amount of all outstanding obligations subject to the
limitation specified in the preceding paragraph.
(3) The 14 per centum limitation specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection
shall be calculated in the following manner:
(A) Determine the dollar amount equivalent to 14 percent of the State of New
Columbia revenues (less court fees, any fees or revenues directed to servicing
revenue bonds, retirement contributions, revenues from retirement systems, and
revenues derived from such loans and the sale of general obligation or revenue
bonds) which the Governor estimates, and the State of New Columbia Auditor
certifies, will be credited to the State of New Columbia during the fiscal year
for which the bonds will be issued;
(B) Determine the actual total amount of principal and interest to be paid in
each fiscal year for all outstanding general obligation bonds and such loans;
(C) Determine the amount of principal and interest to be paid during each fiscal
year over the term of the proposed general obligation bond or such loan to be
issued;
(D) If in any 1 fiscal year the sum arrived at by adding subparagraphs (B) and
(C) of this paragraph exceeds the amount determined under subparagraph (A) of
this paragraph then the proposed general obligation bond or loan in subparagraph
(C) of this paragraph cannot be issued.

(b) The House of Delegates shall not approve any budget which would result in
expenditures being made by the State of New Columbia government, during any
fiscal year, in excess of all resources which the Governor estimates will be
available from all funds available to the State of New Columbia for such fiscal
year. The budget shall identify any tax increases which shall be required in
order to balance the budget as submitted. The House of Delegates shall be
required to adopt such tax increases to the extent its budget is approved. For
the purposes of this section, the House of Delegates shall use a federal payment
amount not to exceed the amount authorized by Congress.

(c) The Governor shall not forward to the House of Delegates a budget which is
not balanced according to the provision of subsection (b) of this section.

ARTICLE VIII. INDEPENDENT AGENCIESSec. 801. Board of Elections and Ethics. (a) There is created a State of New
Columbia Board of Elections and Ethics (hereafter in this article referred to as
the "Board"), to be composed of 3 members, no more than 2 of whom shall be of
the same political party, appointed by the Governor, with the advice and consent
of the House of Delegates. Members shall be appointed to serve for terms of 3
years.

(b) Any person appointed to fill a vacancy on the Board shall be appointed only
for the unexpired term of the member whose vacancy he or she is filling.

(c) A member may be reappointed, and, if not reappointed, the member shall serve
until his or her successor has been appointed and qualifies.

(d) The Governor shall, from time to time, designate the Chair of the Board.

Sec. 802. Zoning Commission. (a) (1) To protect the public health, secure the
public safety, and to protect property in the State of New Columbia there is
created a Zoning Commission for the State of New Columbia, which shall consist
of 5 members appointed by the Governor, by and with the advice and consent of
the House of Delegates. Each member shall serve for a term of 4 years.
(2) Members of the Zoning Commission shall be entitled to receive compensation
as determined by the Governor, with the approval of a majority of the House of
Delegates.
(3) Members of the Zoning Commission may be reappointed. Each member shall serve
until his or her successor has been appointed and qualifies.
(4) The Chair of the Zoning Commission shall be selected by the members.
(5) The Zoning Commission shall exercise all the powers and perform all the
duties with respect to zoning in the State of New Columbia as provided by law.

(b) Zoning maps and regulations, and amendments thereto, shall not be
inconsistent with the comprehensive plan for the National Capital.

(c) (1) No zoning regulation or map, or any amendment thereto, may be adopted by
the Zoning Commission until the Zoning Commission has held a public hearing,
after notice, on such proposed regulation, map, or amendment.
(2) The notice required by paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be published
at least 30 days prior to such public hearing and shall include a statement as
to the time and place of the hearing and a summary of all changes in existing
zoning regulations which would be made by adoption of the proposed regulation,
map, or amendment. The Zoning Commission shall give such additional notice as it
deems expedient and practicable. All interested persons shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to be heard at such public hearing. If the hearing is
adjourned from time to time, the time and place of reconvening shall be publicly
announced prior to adjournment.

Sec. 803. Public Service Commission. There shall be a Public Service Commission,
to be composed of 3 members appointed by the Governor with the advice and
consent of the House of Delegates, whose function shall be to insure that every
public utility doing business within the State of New Columbia is required to
furnish services and facilities reasonably safe and adequate and in all respects
just and reasonable. The charge made by any such public utility for any facility
or services furnished, or rendered, or to be furnished or rendered, shall be
reasonable, just, and nondiscriminatory. Every unjust or unreasonable or
discriminating charge for such facility or service is prohibited and is hereby
declared unlawful.

Sec. 804. Armory Board. There is established an Armory Board, to be composed of
the Commanding General of the State of New Columbia National Guard, and 2 other
members appointed by the Governor of the State of New Columbia by and with the
advice and consent of the House of Delegates of the State of New Columbia. The
members appointed by the Governor shall each serve for a term of 4 years.

Sec. 805. Board of Education. (a) The control of the public schools in the State
of New Columbia is vested in a Board of Education to consist of 11 elected
members, 3 of whom are to be elected at large, and 1 to be elected from each of
the 8 school election districts established under State of New Columbia election
laws. The election of the members of the Board of Education shall be conducted
on a nonpartisan basis and in accordance with such laws. If the House of
Delegates redistricts the State of New Columbia into 16 districts, pursuant to
section 1101(c), the House of Delegates is authorized to increase the number of
school election districts and provide for staggered terms of office for the
members elected from these districts, by act.

ARTICLE IX. INITIATIVE; REFEREDUM; RECALLSec. 901. Definitions. (a) The term "initiative" means the process by which the
electors of the State of New Columbia may propose laws (except laws
appropriating funds) and present such proposed laws directly to the registered
qualified electors of the State of New Columbia for their approval or
disapproval.

(b) The term "referendum" means the process by which the registered qualified
electors of the State of New Columbia may repeal acts of the House of Delegates
of the State of New Columbia (except emergency acts, acts levying taxes, or acts
appropriating funds for the general operation budget).

Sec. 902. Process. An initiative or referendum may be proposed by the
presentation of a petition to the State of New Columbia Board of Elections and
Ethics containing the signatures of registered qualified electors equal in
number to 5 percent of the registered electors in the State of New Columbia:
Provided, that the total signatures submitted include 5 percent of the
registered electors in each of 5/8 ths or more of the districts. The number of
registered electors which is used for computing these requirements shall be
according to the latest official count of registered electors by the Board of
Elections and Ethics which was issued 30 or more days prior to submission of the
signatures for the particular initiative or referendum petition.

Sec. 903. Submission of measure at election. The Board of Elections and Ethics
shall submit an initiative measure without alteration at the next general,
special or primary election held at least 90 days after the measure is received.
The Board of Elections and Ethics shall hold an election on a referendum measure
within 114 days of its receipt of a petition as provided in section 902. If a
previously scheduled general, primary, or special election will occur between 54
and 114 days of its receipt of a petition as provided in section 902, the Board
of Elections and Ethics may present the referendum at that election.

Sec. 904. Rejection of measure. If a majority of the registered qualified
electors voting in a referendum on a referred law vote to disapprove the law,
such action shall be deemed a repeal of the law or that portion of the law on
the referendum ballot and no action may be taken by the House of Delegates of
the State of New Columbia with regard to the matter presented at referendum for
the 365 days following the date of the State of New Columbia Board of Elections
and Ethics' certification of the vote concerning the referendum.

Sec. 905. Approval of measure. If a majority of the registered qualified
electors adopt legislation by initiative, then the adopted initiative shall be
an act of the House of Delegates upon the certification of the vote on such
initiative by the Board of Elections and Ethics, and such act shall become law.

Sec. 906. Short title and summary. The Board of Elections and Ethics shall be
empowered to propose a short title and summary of the initiative and referendum
matter which accurately reflects the intent and meaning of the proposed
referendum or initiative. Any citizen may petition the Superior Court of the
State of New Columbia no later than 30 days prior to the election at which the
initiative or referendum will be held for a writ in the nature of mandamus to
correct any inaccurate short title and summary by the Board of Elections and
Ethics and to mandate that Board to properly state the summary of the initiative
or referendum measure.

Sec. 907. "Recall" defined. The term "recall" means the process by which the
qualified electors of the State of New Columbia may call for the holding of an
election to remove or retain an elected official of the State of New Columbia
prior to the expiration of his or her term.

Sec. 908. Process. Any elected officer of the State of New Columbia government
may be recalled by the registered electors of the election district from which
he or she was elected or by the registered electors of the State of New Columbia
at large in the case of an at-large elected officer, whenever a petition
demanding his or her recall, signed by 10 percent of the registered electors
thereof, is filed with the Board of Elections and Ethics. The 10 percent shall
be computed from the total number of the registered electors from the district,
according to the latest official count of registered electors by the Board of
Elections and Ethics which was issued 30 or more days prior to submission of the
signatures for the particular recall petition. In the case of an at-large
elected official, the 10 percent shall include 10 percent of the registered
electors in each of 5/8 ths or more of the State of New Columbia's districts.
The Board of Elections and Ethics shall hold an election within 114 days of its
receipt of a petition as provided in section 902. If a previously scheduled
general, primary, or special election will occur between 54 and 114 days of its
receipt of a petition as provided in section 902, then the Board of Elections
and Ethics may present the recall question at that election.

Sec. 909. Time limits on initiation of process. The process of recalling an
elected official may not be initiated within the first 365 days nor the last 365
days of his or her term of office. Nor may the process be initiated within 1
year after a recall election has been determined in his or her favor.

Sec. 910. When official removed; filling of vacancies. An elected official is
removed from office if a majority of the qualified electors voting in the
election vote to remove him or her. The vacancy created by such recall shall be
filled in the same manner as other vacancies in the office.

ARTICLE X. MISCELLANEOUSSec. 1001. Advisory neighborhood commissions. (a) The House of Delegates shall
by act divide the State of New Columbia into neighborhood commission areas
following each decennial census reapportionment. In designating such
neighborhoods, the House of Delegates shall consider natural geographic
boundaries, election districts, and divisions of the State of New Columbia made
for the purpose of administration of services.

(b) Elections for members of each advisory neighborhood commission shall be
nonpartisan, and shall be administered by the Board of Elections and Ethics.
Advisory neighborhood commission members shall be elected from single-member
districts within each neighborhood commission area by the registered qualified
electors of such district.

(c) Each advisory neighborhood commission:
(1) May advise the State of New Columbia government on matters of public policy
including decisions regarding planning, streets, recreation, social services
programs, health, safety, and sanitation in that neighborhood commission area;
(2) May employ staff and expend, for public purposes within its neighborhood
commission area, public funds and other funds donated to it; and
(3) Shall have such other powers and duties as may be provided by act of the
House of Delegates.

(d) In the manner provided by act of the House of Delegates, in addition to any
other notice required by law, timely notice shall be given to each advisory
neighborhood commission of requested or proposed zoning changes, variances,
public improvements, licenses or permits of significance to neighborhood
planning and development within its neighborhood commission area for its review,
comment, and recommendation.

(e) In order to pay the expenses of the advisory neighborhood commissions,
enable them to employ such staff as may be necessary, and to conduct programs
for the welfare of the people in a neighborhood commission area, the State of
New Columbia government shall allot funds to the advisory neighborhood
commissions out of the general revenues of the State of New Columbia in an
amount which is not less than the amount provided in the prior fiscal year. The
funding apportioned to each advisory neighborhood commission shall bear the same
ratio to the full sum allotted as the population of the neighborhood bears to
the population of the State of New Columbia. The House of Delegates may
authorize additional methods of financing advisory neighborhood commissions.

(f) The House of Delegates shall by act make provisions for the handling of
funds and accounts by each advisory neighborhood commission and shall establish
guidelines with respect to the employment of persons by each advisory
neighborhood commission which shall include fixing the status of such employees
with respect to the State of New Columbia government, but all such provisions
and guidelines shall be uniform for all advisory neighborhood commissions and
shall provide that decisions to employ and discharge employees shall be made by
the advisory neighborhood commission. These provisions shall conform to the
extent practicable to the regular budgetary, expenditure and auditing procedures
and the personnel merit system of the State of New Columbia.

(g) The House of Delegates shall have authority, in accordance with the
provisions of this constitution, to legislate with respect to the advisory
neighborhood commissions established in this section.

(h) The issues and concerns raised by an affected advisory neighborhood
commission in the recommendations of that commission shall be given great weight
during the deliberations by a State of New Columbia governmental agency, board,
or commission.

Sec. 1002. Agreements. (a) The Governor shall annually estimate the amount of
the State of New Columbia's principal and interest expense which is required to
service State of New Columbia obligations attributable to the Maryland and
Virginia pro rata share of State of New Columbia sanitary sewage water works and
other water pollution projects which provide service to the local jurisdictions
in those states. Such amounts as determined by the Governor pursuant to the
agreements described in subsection (b) of this section shall be used to exclude
the Maryland and Virginia share of pollution projects cost from the limitation
on the State of New Columbia's capital project obligations as provided in
section 719(a).

(b) The Governor shall enter into agreements with the states and local
jurisdictions concerned for annual payments to the State of New Columbia of
rates and charges for waste treatment services in accordance with the use and
benefits made and derived from the operation of the said waste treatment
facilities. Each such agreement shall require that the estimated amount of such
rates and charges will be paid in advance, subject to adjustment after each
year. Such rates and charges shall be sufficient to cover the cost of
construction, interest on capital, operation and maintenance, and the necessary
replacement of equipment during the useful life of the facility.

(c) The Governor is authorized to enter into agreements with the President of
the United States or the President's designee for the purpose of obligating the
State of New Columbia to provide police, fire, and other essential services to
the District of Columbia.

Sec. 1003. Contract authority of Governor regarding costs of Potomac River
reservoir; contract payments; appropriations. (a) The Governor is authorized to
contract with the United States, any state in the Potomac River basin, any
agency or political subdivision thereof, and any other competent state or local
authority, with respect to the payment by the State of New Columbia to the
United States, either directly or indirectly, of the State of New Columbia's
equitable share of any part or parts of the non-federal portion of the costs of
any reservoirs authorized by the Congress for construction on the Potomac River
or any of its tributaries. Every such contract may contain such provisions as
the Governor may deem necessary or appropriate.

(b) Unless hereafter otherwise provided by legislation enacted by the House of
Delegates, all payments made by the State of New Columbia and all moneys
received by the State of New Columbia pursuant to any contract made under the
authority of this constitution shall be paid from, or be deposited in, a fund
designated by the Governor. Charges for water delivered from the State of New
Columbia water system for use outside the State of New Columbia may be adjusted
to reflect the portions of any payments made by the State of New Columbia under
contracts authorized by this constitution which are equitably attributable to
such use outside the State of New Columbia.

(c) There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary
to carry out the purposes of this section.

Sec. 1004. Open meetings. (a) All meetings (including hearings) of any
department, agency, board, or commission of the State of New Columbia
government, including meetings of the House of Delegates of the State of New
Columbia, at which official action of any kind is taken shall be open to the
public. No resolution, rule, act, regulation or other official action shall be
effective unless taken, made, or enacted at such meeting.

(b) A written transcript or a transcription shall be kept for all such meetings
and shall be made available to the public during normal business hours of the
State of New Columbia government. Copies of such written transcripts or copies
of such transcriptions shall be available upon request to the public at
reasonable cost.

ARTICLE XI. TRANSITION PROVISIONSSec. 1101. Transfer of the offices of members
of the Council of the District of Columbia, Chairman of the Council of the
District of Columbia, and Mayor of the District of Columbia. (a) The Council of
the District of Columbia and the offices of Chairman of the Council of the
District of Columbia and Mayor of the District of Columbia, as established by
sections 401, 411, and 421 of the District of Columbia Government
Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization Act, are abolished as of the
effective date of this constitution.

(b) In order to provide continuity during the transition from the government of
the District of Columbia established by the District of Columbia Government
Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization Act and the State of New
Columbia established by this constitution, the members of the Council of the
District of Columbia, the Chairman of the Council of the District of Columbia,
and the Mayor of the District of Columbia in office as of the effective date of
this constitution shall be deemed members of the House of Delegates, President
of the House of Delegates, and Governor, respectively, until the expiration of
that term of office held on the effective date of this constitution. Vacancies
in these offices during the holdover term shall be filled as provided in
sections 301(b), 301(d), and 401.

(c) New members of the House of Delegates shall be elected to take office on
January 2nd of the next odd numbered year beginning more than 1 year from the
effective date of this constitution. In the interim period between the effective
date of this constitution and 1 year from the effective date of this
constitution, the members of the House of Delegates shall by act:
(1) Increase the membership of the House of Delegates to 25 effective January
2nd of the next odd numbered year beginning more than 1 year from the effective
date of this constitution by increasing the number of at large members to 8 and
by either:
(A) Redistricting the State of New Columbia into 16 districts; or
(B) Providing for the election of 2 district representatives from each of the
existing 8 districts of the State of New Columbia; and
(2) Provide for an initial 2 year term of office for 12 of the 18 members of the
House of Delegates taking office on January 2nd of the next odd numbered year
beginning more than 1 year from the effective date of this constitution.
Thereafter, the term of office of all members of the House of Delegates shall be
4 years.

(d) Positions previously held on boards, commissions, and regional bodies by
members of the Council of the District of Columbia, the Chairman of the Council
of the District of Columbia, or the Mayor of the District of Columbia shall be
held after the effective date of this constitution by members of the House of
Delegates, the President of the House of Delegates, and the Governor,
respectively.

(e) For those boards and commissions established by Articles V and VIII of this
constitution, members not federally appointed and in office as of the effective
date of this constitution shall continue to serve until the expiration of that
term of office held on the effective date of this constitution. The terms of
federally appointed members shall expire as of the effective date of this
constitution and no vacancies shall be deemed to be created by the abolition of
these positions.

Sec. 1102. Continuation of State of New Columbia court system. (a) In order to
provide continuity during the transition from the government of the District of
Columbia established by the District of Columbia Government Self-Government and
Governmental Reorganization Act and the State of New Columbia established by
this constitution, the members of the District of Columbia Superior Court and
the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia appointed as of the effective
date of this constitution shall be deemed members of the State of New Columbia
Superior Court and the Court of Appeals of the State of New Columbia,
respectively, until the expiration of that term of office held on the effective
date of this constitution.

(b) The District of Columbia Court of Appeals, the Superior Court of the
District of Columbia, the District of Columbia Commission on Judicial
Disabilities and Tenure, and the Judicial Nomination Commission shall continue
as provided under the District of Columbia Court Reorganization Act of 1970
subject to the provisions of Article V of this constitution.

(c) The term and qualifications of any judge of any District of Columbia court
appointed prior to the effective date of this constitution shall not be affected
by the provisions of Article V of this constitution. No provision of this
constitution shall be construed to extend the term of any such judge. Judges of
the State of New Columbia courts and members of the State of New Columbia
Commission on Judicial Disabilities and Tenure and the Judicial Nomination
Commission appointed after the effective date of this constitution shall be
appointed according to Article V.

(d) Nothing in this constitution shall be construed to amend, repeal, or
diminish the duties, rights, privileges, or benefits accruing under sections
1561 through 1571 of title 11 of the District of Columbia Code, dealing with
retirement, or to authorize a decrease in the level of compensation of the
judges of the District of Columbia courts or the members of the Commission on
Judicial Disabilities and Tenure or the Judicial Nomination Commission as of the
effective date of this constitution. The compensation received by judges of the
State of New Columbia courts shall not be diminished during their continuance in
office.

Sec. 1103. Continuation of Board of Education. In order to provide continuity
during the transition from the government of the District of Columbia
established by the District of Columbia Government Self-Government and
Governmental Reorganization Act and the State of New Columbia established by
this constitution, the members of the District of Columbia Board of Education in
office as of the effective date of this constitution shall be deemed members of
the Board of Education established by section 805 until the expiration of that
term of office held on the effective date of this constitution. The term of any
member elected to the District of Columbia Board of Education and the powers and
duties of the Board of Education shall not be affected by the provisions of
section 805. No provision of section 805 shall be construed to extend the term
of any current Board of Education member or to terminate the term of any such
member.

Sec. 1104. Pending actions and proceedings. All existing writs, actions, suit,
judicial and administrative proceedings, civil or criminal liabilities,
prosecutions, judgments, sentences, orders, decrees, appeals, causes of action,
contracts, claims, demands, titles, and rights shall continue unaffected except
as modified in accordance with the provisions of this constitution. The State of
New Columbia shall be the legal successor to the District of Columbia in all
matters.

Sec. 1105. Laws in force. Upon the effective date of this constitution, all of
the laws then in force in the District of Columbia shall be and continue in
force and effect throughout the State of New Columbia, except as modified or
changed by the State of New Columbia admissions act, or by this constitution, or
as thereafter modified or changed by the legislature of the State of New
Columbia or by initiative as provided in Article IX.

Sec. 1106. Personnel rights. Nothing in this constitution shall be construed as
affecting the rights of employees of the State of New Columbia who were employed
by the District of Columbia government prior to the effective date of the
District of Columbia Government Comprehensive Merit Personnel Act of 1978,
effective March 3, 1979 (D.C. Law 2-139; D.C. Code, sec. 1-601.1 et seq.)
("Merit Personnel Act"), to personnel benefits, including, but not limited to
pay, tenure, leave, residence, retirement, health and life insurance, and
employee disability and death benefits, all at least equal to those provided by
legislation enacted by Congress, or regulations adopted pursuant thereto, and
applicable to such officers and employees immediately prior to the effective
date of the Merit Personnel Act.

Sec. 1107. Debts; assets; records. The debts and liabilities of the District of
Columbia as of the effective date of this constitution shall be assumed by the
State of New Columbia, and debts owed to the District of Columbia shall be
collected by the State of New Columbia. Assets and records of the District of
Columbia shall become the property of the State of New Columbia.

Sec. 1108. Residency and qualifications. Residence, citizenship, or other
qualifications under the District of Columbia may be used towards the
fulfillment of corresponding qualifications required by this constitution.

Sec. 1109. Adjustments. The Governor, with the approval of the House of
Delegates, is authorized and empowered to enter into an agreement or agreements
concerning the manner and method by which amounts owed by the State of New
Columbia to the United States, or by the United States to the State of New
Columbia, shall be ascertained and paid.

Sec. 1110. Voting rights. Any person who resides in any area which was a part of
the District of Columbia immediately prior to the admission of the State of New
Columbia but which is not included in the State of New Columbia may, at his or
her option, be deemed to be a resident of the State of New Columbia for purposes
of voting in a State of New Columbia election unless that person claims
residency in another state for voting purposes.

ARTICLE XII. RULES OF CONSTRUTIONSec. 1201. Construction of constitution. To the extent that any provisions of
this constitution are inconsistent with the provisions of any other laws
applicable exclusively in or to the State of New Columbia, the provisions of
this constitution shall prevail and shall be deemed to supersede the provisions
of such laws.

Diese Verfassung wurde zwar vom Volk des Distrikts verabschiedet, ist jedoch,
infolge der fehlenden Ratifikation des Zusatzartikels zur US-Verfassung, der den
Distrikt zu einem Bundesstaat gemacht h�tte, nie in Kraft getreten.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Quellen: government.westlaw.com
[http://government.westlaw.com/linkedslice/default.asp?SP=DCC-1000]
© 13. M�rz 2006
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Home [http://www.verfassungen.de/us] Zurück [javascript:history.back();] Top
[#top]
